# Codepath-Week-7-Alternative-Assignment-Essay
Revised 


	Common vulnerabilities and exposures is formatted as a standardized list of names of known public vulnerabilities and other specific information on security exposures. When it comes to WordPress, it runs approximately 25% of the internet’s websites. Which means that if a hacker can successfully hack into one WordPress ran website because of a vulnerability; there is also a strong possibility of the other 700 million WordPress ran websites to be compromised as well. What WordPress does is once a vulnerability has surfaced, a team of specially trained individuals work on trying to patch that vulnerability. Nearly more than half of WordPress’ vulnerabilities and exposures are from WordPress plugins, following core WordPress and the themes from WordPress. SQL injections, DOS, XSS, CSRF, and Bypass are common methods used to compromise a good amount or WordPress’ vulnerabilities. 


	Starting with CVE-2018-6389, this vulnerability is best described as a way for unauthenticated attackers can cause a denial of service by using the huge list of registered .js files (from wp-includes/script-loader.php) to create a list of requests to load every file multiple times. A zero-day vulnerability in WordPress core was disclosed, which allows an attacker to perform a denial of service (DoS) attack against a vulnerable application. “The vulnerability exists in the modules used to load JS and CSS files.” The modules were designed to decrease and manipulate page-loading time, it effectively rendered the WordPress core that was previously susceptible to DoS attacks.


	There was apparently a flaw in the server-side static file loading mechanism. The parameter “load” in the vulnerable modules “load-styles.php” and “load-scripts.php”, which were specifically located under the “/wp-admin/” path, it accepts a variety of JS/CSS files to capture while the page is loading. The specific modules that were vulnerable were used in pages that were only accessible by authenticated users, with a small exception being the login page, which exposes said modules to unauthenticated users as well. This in return means that a malicious user can numerously request an oversize list of JS/CSS files, which can cause the server to retrieve a huge amount of data, which can result in unresponsiveness.
Here is a diagram of the executed code below:
 
	Vulnerability was discovered by Barak Tawily released the following Bash script that patches the exploit by essentially allowing only admins to send requests to the vulnerable modules, and removes the requests to the modules from the login page. The script also removes most of the code from the “noop.php” module due to “re-declaration errors”. In a testing environment in our lab we didn’t encounter any such errors and thus we assume that altering the “noop.php” is not obligatory for all WordPress users.


	The next vulnerability involves cross site scripting (XSS). The vulnerability is CVE-2018-10102 involves the get_the_generator() function. “It basically does not properly filter HTML code from user-supplied input in the 'version' string before displaying the input in generator tags.” A remote user can potentially cause arbitrary scripting code to be performed by the specific target user's browser. The code will come from the specific site that is running the WordPress software and will run in the security context area of the WordPress site. Which will result in the particular code that is being ran  will be able to access the target user's cookies, even authentication cookies, if present, and will also access data that has been recently submitted by the specific target user in web form and can possibly perform actions on the site acting as if it is the target user. The solution was solved by the vendor who fixed the vulnerability (4.9.5) in April 2018.


	Vulnerability CVE-2017-16510 involves a SQL Injection (SQLi). This exposure is best described as “a vulnerability that was found up to WordPress 4.8.2 is affected by an issue where $wpdb->prepare() can create unexpected and unsafe queries leading to potential SQL injection (SQLi) in plugins and themes, as demonstrated by a “double prepare” approach, a different vulnerability than CVE-2017-14723.”


	The weakness was presented 11/02/2017. The advisory is shared for download at securityfocus.com. This vulnerability is handled as CVE-2017-16510 since 11/02/2017. The attack may be launched remotely. No form of authentication is required for exploitation. “There are known technical details, but no exploit is available. The current price for an exploit might be approx. USD $0-$5k (estimation calculated on 11/02/2017).” The vulnerability scanner Nessus provides a plugin called Debian DLA-1160, security update in WordPress, which helps to determine the  flaw in the target environment. It is assigned to the family Debian Local Security Checks. Upgrading to version 4.8.3 eliminates this vulnerability. 


	Vulnerability CVE-2017-9064 affected WordPress versions before 4.7.5, a Cross Site Request Forgery (CSRF) vulnerability exists in the filesystem credentials dialog because it is not required for updating credentials. A vulnerability was found in WordPress up to 4.7.4. It has been declared as “problematic”. This vulnerability affects an unknown function. The manipulation with an unknown input leads to a cross site request forgery vulnerability. As an impact it is known to affect integrity. An attacker might be able force legitimate users to initiate unwanted actions within the web application.The attack can be initiated remotely. No form of authentication is required for a successful exploitation. “The technical details are unknown and an exploit is not available. The structure of the vulnerability defines a possible price range of USD $0-$5k at the moment (estimation calculated on 05/19/2017).” “The vulnerability scanner Nessus provides a plugin with the ID 100298 (WordPress 4.7.x < 4.7.5 Multiple Vulnerabilities), which helps to determine the existence of the flaw in a target environment.” Upgrading to version 4.7.5 eliminates (patches) this vulnerability.


	The last vulnerability, CVE-2017-5491, is a “Bypass” exploit. Basically wp-mail.php in WordPress in the versions made before version 4.7.1 it can allow remote malicious users to bypass posting restrictions through a spoofed mail server with the mail.example.com name. The weakness was released 01/15/2017. The exploitation is known to be easy and the attack may be initiated remotely. No form of authentication is needed for a successful exploitation. “The pricing for an exploit might be around USD $0-$5k at the moment (estimation calculated on 01/15/2017).” The vulnerability scanner, Nessus has a plugin with the ID 96606, which basically helps to determine the existence of the flaw in the target environment. It is assigned to the family CGI abuses. Upgrading to version 4.7.1 patches this vulnerability.
